# Dockerized Django web application

This web project has been made by using Python Django framework and Docker containerization has been utilized to run the it in the isolated environment. 

## Django settings

The project core has been generated by 'django-admin startproject' using Django 3.2.

## Docker settings

Docker takes the best of the virtualization features and removes the drawbacks of it, such as resource drain, setup time, and maintenance. The portability of Docker also enables various developers/project members to run it in an OS/system-agnostic way. 

In the project main Docker image configuration settings are located inside ``Dockerfile`` file. With the help of ``docker-compose.yml`` file it was possible to configure application's services.

### Postgres settings

The relational database Postgres has been used for this project. To configure Postgres a service called `db` has been added to the docker-compose.yml file as follows:

```
db:
    image: postgres
    volumes:
      - ./data/db:/var/lib/postgresql/data
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_DB=postgres
      - POSTGRES_USER=postgres
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
```

To persist the data beyond the life of the container a volume has also been configured. This config will bind ``./data/db`` to the ``/var/lib/postgresql/data/`` directory in the container.

An environment key has also been added to define a name for the default database and set a username and password.

## Runing the project

Run the following to start project in detached mode: 
`docker-compose up -d --build`
